this is the President and First Lady's
recorders absolutely as you see right
now we currently have this area set up
where there's two beds available for the
President and First Lady now I
understand the president's particular
about his pillows because he has special
pillows he does it's not out right now
but he likes a very soft pillow and
you've got to have it definitely have it
it's a touch of a button and they will
go down and given the irregular hours of
the presidential trip the first couple
can rest day or night and no touching
button and they can all come right back
up presidents have had their own planes
since Franklin Roosevelt in 1944
commissioned this c-54 called the sacred
cow in 1962 John Kennedy started flying
on the first presidential jet a year
later it would take him to Dallas and
bring back his body
in 1990 the 747 took over as Air Force
One Colonel Tillman is the 12th
presidential pilot it's the flying White
House similar to the White House there's
area for the Secret Service to guard the
First Families quarters so there are two
guys stationed here on top similar to
the White House okay
the go to medical annex we've got a
hospital on board where the White House
medical unit has a doctor and a nurse
that will travel with them all the time
and we've got a medical equipment to go
ahead and stabilize the president and
then we can get him to a hospital
necessary while we're flying next
Tilghman took us to the president's
conference room originally designed as
the Situation Room
but now used for meeting with staff on
the plane or around the world the prison
will sit right here
he's got the communication he needs to
direct the nation as necessary but he's
also got the capability of a 50-inch
plasma screen up top where he can
actually do video teleconferencing one
thing we learned is there is a dividing
line in the play in the forward section
the seatbelts have the presidential seal
denoting that areas special status will
move out of the White House the tan
carpeting is what we consider the White
House and then we'll move into a guest
area when we get to the blue carpeting
we're out of the White House sir Colonel
Tillman took us to the area where guests
sit but in recent years it's also been
used to carry the remains of former
presidents to the nation's capital and
then back home this area is set up for
the President to that his fallen will
lay in state back here so that chairs
will come out the table comes off a
table right there comes out and then the
casket will lay in state right here
we'll we'll take care of the the
president from basically in office to
when he lays in state the airforce one
will take care of the president for like
Nancy Reagan President Reagan we made
the front of the aircraft exactly the
way it was when President Reagan was
president so we pulled out the President
Reagan's Air Force one jacket we had
Nancy Reagan's jacket we put him on the
chairs up front with the books and the
candies and whatever just to make him at
home finally it was time to head
upstairs this is the communication suite
so the backbone of the aircraft all the
phones that you see onboard
really connects up into this air how
many phones at 87 phones so basically on
one side is all the phones on the jet on
the other side are phone lines if they
have available so they're just plugging
and playing now what's the difference in
color over here on the right the normal
communications are in the gray and then
the red is for basically once we want to
make a classified call or a secure call
for the President or any of the staff
it's available to Colonel Tillman then
took us into his office the cockpit of
Air Force one where he has been an
eyewitness to our nation's recent
history with President Bush since
September 11 2001 Tillman bristles at
stories mr. Bush was reluctant to return
to Washington after the attacks on 9/11
many thought he might have been running
around the United States and that wasn't
the case we as the military were
protecting them the president wanted to
get back to Washington right away to
lead the country but he was leading the
country on Air Force One
in fact the colonel was so worried after
the initial attacks he had Air Force
personnel guard his cockpit I did ask
our head security forces person to go
ahead and remain up in the crew rest
area to make sure that there was no
until we had everybody accounted for on
the aircraft so even the people on board
Air Force One you were
concerned we might not know who's here I
just went with the worst case the other
indelible memory Thanksgiving 2003 when
Tillman flew Air Force One on a secret
mission to Baghdad so mr. Bush could
have dinner with the troops how did you
feel about flying the President of the
United States into a war zone but the
prison was up in the cockpit with me
then and that's one of the things he
mentioned was you know what it's about
bringing the president into a war zone
prior to taking off I was extremely
concerned because I want my kids when
they and when I'm granddad I want all my
grandkids to know that the history books
showed that Colonel Tillman got him in
there safely and got him out one thing
the colonel won't discuss is security on
the plane it reportedly has defenses to
ward off surface-to-air missiles and the
effects of the nuclear blast all Tillman
says is the president is well protected
it turns out by tradition when a
president leaves office so does his
pilot which means come inauguration day
to public servants we'll be stepping
down what's it going to feel like the
last time you push the throttle forward
and take your president back to Texas
the throttles go forward and I start
heading to Texas it's bring back a lot
of memories of what I've accomplished
over the last eight years or the press
once we land there my deputy will be the
next president's pilot I'll move over
the right seat I'll be his co-pilot my
nametag will come off his nametag will
come on and it will be truly an honor
for him and truly an honor for me to
serve President Bush and we'll have some
final thoughts about our time on Air
Force One after this break
you